[Autogenerated] If you worked with Docker Compose in the past,
then you know it's a great tool to have in your Docker tool belt.
It provides all kinds of functionality,
from building images to running containers to looking at logs and more.
Now the Docker Documentation defines it this way.
Composes a tool for defining and running multi container Docker applications.
With composed, you can use a YAML file to configure your application services.
Then, with a single command,
you create and start all the services from your configuration.
Now, if you haven't done this much before, it kind of looks like this.
Let's say that we had a server,
maybe a reverse proxy like H a proxy Engine X or another one.
And that's on the left there.
And let's say that when a call comes in,
it serves up some type of a nap, maybe a JavaScript application,
for example.
Then that calls into other APIs or servers behind the scenes.
Now let's assume that all of these servers are containerized,
they have containers, and we need to call into those containers.
Now those APIs might make calls into a database,
get back data and possibly cache it and something like red is
or another type of caching option out there.
And when you put all this together,
we're now looking at a lot of different containers,
and this isn't even that complex of an application,
so you could see that right off the bat.
We have six containers here, and that's assuming we are contain.
Arising are database, of course.
And how do we get those all up and running?
Well, we could use the Docker run command to do that,
but that's really the role of Docker Compose,
Of course, is we can defined these different services,
which ultimately lead to containers being created.
And then with one command,
we can bring all this up on our local machine or even
in production if we want it now.
We could also build the images for all of these on a CCD system,
or even manually, with one single command as well.
So it's very, very powerful that way.
So when it comes to the overview of what does it do?
We can build images as mentioned.
We can start up containers and we can, of course,
tear down containers and even do more than that.
We'll talk about some of that coming up now,
the way Docker Compose works is we have a YAML file,
and this YAML file is used to describe services.
Each services ultimately corresponds to a running container.
Now, when it comes to building the images,
though,
for our containers we can run a Docker Compose build
command and that will take those services,
find the Docker files we would define and then generate
theater pro pre it Docker images.
Now Docker Compose file looks like this.
Then we start with the version that we're working with,
and then we define our services.
Here's an example of an ASP net core service,
and it has a build with a context of the local folder.
That's the DOT and the Docker file, which is SAP Net core Docker file,
would be in that folder,
which would be the same folder as our Docker Compose YAML file.
In this particular case, you'll also see that we have a network to find.
And that, of course,
is used to communicate between these different containers in
this network called ESPN Net Core app Network.
Now let's say that we also have a service for post breast SQL,
and we want that image to be pulled directly from Docker
Hub or some other registry that's out there and we want it
to be in the same network.
What?
We could define that in our YAML file.
And now our ASP.NET core app could talk to our database.
That's being containerized here.
Now, the final step here is we would need our network.
In this case, I have to find the most simple kind,
which is called a bridge network and that basically allows
these two containers to talk to each other.
In this case,
SAP Net core would obviously call into the database and maybe
perform different types of code operations.
Create, read, update Delete.
Now, once we've created the YAML file we can,
of course, used Docker Compose commands.
And this is part of the Docker tool kit, if you will.
So we could, for example,
say Docker Compose build that would then find the Docker file that I
showed for ESPN at core and build that image now.
It wouldn't do anything with the post grass SQL,
though, because that one didn't have a custom Docker file.
It was just going to use the default damage that might be
up in Docker Hub or another location.
From there,
we could bring up those different containers and we could do
that with the Docker Compose up command.
When we're done, we can take those down, stop them and destroy them.
Remove them by doing Docker Compose down.
And then we could even access all the logs for everything we have
defined as a service with Docker Compose logs.
So by doing this,
we have a really easy way to not only build all the
images for these Docker webOS services,
but also bring up all the containers with really just a simple command.
So it's pretty amazing if you haven't done it before.
And if you have hopefully you've already seen these XAML and these
different commands that I'm going through now.
With all of that functionality,
we could ask the question Why would I move to Kubernetes
when Docker Compose can build my images?
Start my containers, stop them,
view my logs everything and really the answer there is
your kind of comparing apples to oranges.
Docker Compose is good for doing those things,
but in a more robust production environment,
where you wanna be able to scale containers and heal them when they get sick,
replace them if they're too sick.
View logs, monitor and on and on and on,
then, really,
the answer there is kubernetes is kind of for the big time production scenario.
We can scale those containers across multiple nodes,
multiple servers, if you will, or VM provide container monitoring,
healing functionality,
a really robust set of deployment options and even do
much more so it really comes down to.
If you're just looking to get containers up and running and don't need to scale
those could I just use Docker Compose and the answer is yes.
But the problem there is there's not a lot of monitoring built in at all.
It's not really what's designed for.
And if one of those containers crashes, well,
that would be a problem,
whereas with kubernetes is designed to handle those type of scenarios.
So that's a quick look at what Docker composes and a quick comparison on why
we would want to move from Docker Compose to Kubernetes. So now let's do a quick review for kubernetes itself.